§bIn the year 1987, Capcom sought to make a game based on Astro Boy.

§9The plans fell through though, so a man named Keiji Inafune was tasked with creating new characters for the game during development.

§bIt was actually Akira Kitamura (A.K. in the games' credits) who created the main character's iconic sprites. Inafune merely refined the character's concept with his artwork.

§9You could say the two of them worked together like Dr. Light and Dr. Wily, only A.K. didn't turn evil in the end.

§bThough... funny thing about that. In the Japanese version, Light and Wily were never partners. Wily was just some guy who showed up out of nowhere to steal Dr. Light's robots. That original version is what Mega Man Powered Up went with.

§9And did you know that Mega Man never even threatened to kill Wily in the Japanese version of Mega Man 7? He just said he didn't trust him and demanded to know what he was really up to when begging for mercy.

The American version might have been better because Dr. Light witnessing his robot son try to perform a zeroth law rebellion works great as motivation for him to design X the way he did.

§bAnyway, the end result, Mega Man for the NES, was commendable, but had slippery controls and overused a red and orange color scheme in many areas.

§9Mega Man himself was almost red too, but was changed to blue because the NES had more blue colors in its palette than red.

§bDue to the game's uncomfortable quirks leading to lack of success, a sequel wasn't given the blessing by management. But Inafune and his team set out to make one anyway, juggling it between their other assignments.

§9It was this labor of love that cemented Keiji Inafune as the father of the entire Mega Man series for over two decades.

§bFor the sequel, the controls were tightened, the artwork became more elaborate and colorful, and the difficulty was adjusted, even including two modes in the US version.

§9Kids were also allowed to submit their own boss designs during development. A total of 8370 entries were submitted for Mega Man 2's eight robot masters.

§bThe rest, as they say, is history.

§9Mega Man rose to fame with six games on the NES and five on the Game Boy. The two series evolved in parallel, with Mega Man 4-6 adding second fortresses to lengthen playtime, while Mega Man IV and V (Rockman World 4 and 5 in Japan) tried to become perfect in their succinctness. They won out in the end, as the two of them frequently compete with Mega Man 2 for the title of best Mega Man game ever, while Mega Man 4-6 slowly got long in the tooth.

§3But the sacred formula of eight robots and a fortress wasn't enough when it came time to leap to the 16-bit and 32-bit eras. Mega Man 7 was criminally short compared to most other SNES games; the classic stage select mechanic came to be seen as a puzzle that you breeze through when you know the solution rather than an invitation to replay the game many different ways.

§1Mega Man 8, meanwhile, had Frost Man's stage and Wily Stage 1, which barely counted as levels for reasons that are memetic today.

§3Thus Mega Man began to decline in popularity and relevance.

§1Instead of trying new things, he began to spin off into new series, with Mega Man X beginning the trend. The X series only helped to hasten the decline in the end though, with X6 and X7 nearly ruining everything for everyone, especially poor Megaman Volnutt who had been working hard to forge his own identity at the time.

§3Megaman Battle Network and Megaman Zero revived things for a while, but began to peter out in the public's mind halfway through their series' run. Thus Star Force went largely ignored and unloved and there were not enough fans left to keep Mega Man ZX running beyond a single sequel.

§9But then the original returned, putting his best foot forward in Mega Man 9 and 10. A resurgence of interest came with him, and many people eagerly awaited what further adventures the legacy character might embark on in Megaman Legends 3 and beyond.

Not much of a resurgance, mind. Capcom didn't advertise Mega Man 10 at all; it would have been completely overlooked if not for the gaming press jumping all over it. Plus, trying to go back to the annual release strategy with a retro art style may have helped keep the fanbase insular.

§3Not long after, Inafune finally reached his limit. He departed from Capcom before he burnt himself out, and without him watching Volnutt's back, Megaman Legends became more famous in death than it ever was in life.

§1Not only was the classic series ended, but the rest of the spinoffs followed. It was one of the loudest silences in the history of video games.

It was significant because a healthy gaming industry used to have Mega Man games coming out regularly like Kirby games do and only needing to sell a minimum of 200,000 copies to justify the next sequel. In his prime, Mega Man was practically amphibious with how he was a good environmental indicator.

He was never a Triple A production, but in retrospect, maybe that was one of the best things about him, especially since Triple A games have come to be defined by glitches, predatory microtransactions, and live service models.

You know, if only the New Super Mario Bros. franchise had eight new themed bosses and eight new weapons each game, maybe it wouldn’t be accused of stagnating far more easily than Mega Man ever has. That's the kind of power and respect the blue guy has.

§3This has all affected Inafune's attitude to this day. He blames himself at least in part for the cancellation of Megaman Legends 3 and would leap back onto the project right away if given another chance.

§1Perhaps with another chance, Mighty No. 9 wouldn't have become a stillborn franchise due to his mismanagement either. He spent years lying low after that debacle. It feels like the only good thing he did with that project was kickstart Yooka-Laylee and Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night by proxy.

§3It's a sad injustice to have a life so violently snuffed out when it's at the start of a renaissance and it seemed to have plenty more fruitful years left in it.

The thing is though, even if we hadn't gotten Mega Man 11, the franchise would have lived on regardless.

The fans won't let him die. Thanks to starring in many popular works from Mega Man Unlimited by MegaPhilX to Bob and George by David Anez, he's practically become a public domain character despite not legally being in the public domain.

§9Perhaps the public domain isn't an area defined by law at all, but a concept in the science of anthropology? Perhaps everything enters the public domain immediately upon creation, regardless of what the law says?

§bAfter all, it's pretty obvious by now that Mega Man has achieved immortality through the people who love him, like many old things have. Heck, programs as old as DOS still refuse to die even though we live in a world where everyone uses something that's at least comparable to Windows 10.

§9It's part of a life cycle. Something new comes along, it becomes popular for a while, then its turn ends and something else comes along. But the formerly new thing usually doesn't die outright; instead it gradually becomes vintage, a valuable antique, or a coveted luxury. It may even return to life in the public's eye one day after spending years living quietly and humbly, as if biding its time.

§bOr it may even be reincarnated, as is the case with RosenkreuzStilette, Rokko-Chan, and Azure Striker Gunvolt. Spiritual successors are especially common in video games.

§9BlazBlue is a spiritual successor to Guilty Gear.

§bPokemon Black/White is said to be one to MOTHER 3.

§9Bioshock and Dead Space are ones to System Shock.

§bThe Boktai series is one to Metal Gear: Ghost Babel.

§9Mercenary Kings carries the spirit of the Contra and Metal Slug series.

§bFreedom Planet began as one to the original Sonic the Hedgehog trilogy, then grew beyond that, becoming a love letter to all great mascot platformers of old.

§9And who's to say that Megaman Legends 3 won't one day be completed by the fans, not as an 8-bit platformer, but as the 3D adventure game it was originally meant to be? Give it enough time, not only for someone to get a team together but for everyone else to be sure that some other company can't or won't do it, and it's bound to happen. The Legends series probably deserves it too seeing as it pioneered a lot of adventure mechanics before The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time did.

§bEven when the video game industry looks rickety with bloated budgets, rampant game cancellations, and studio closures, remember that when the big trees in the forest fall, they just make room for the new saplings sprouting on the forest floor.

§9Maybe those saplings will become big trees too, with all the good and bad that entails. It's a shame to see such grand old trees rot away, partly because we always know their deaths could have been avoided if only someone had been a little less stupid or short-sighted.

§bBut as long as people love video games, the natural life cycle will continue.

Even Inafune may eventually rebuild his career. He seems to have friends in high places, and enough of them want to see him succeed again that his name is attached to Azure Striker Gunvolt 3.

§9At the very least, be thankful that creations always exist separately from their creators. The rights for those characters always end up going somewhere, and they'll either find loving homes with new creators, or the rights will expire, opening up the floodgates for fan works.

§bCourse, it's not like that's ever stopped the Mega Man fandom before. And that's one thing we should always be thankful to Capcom for. Whether it's because they're apathetic or have never completely lost their sanity, Capcom has always been happy to let the fans keep their franchises warm for them until the day they, or whatever company will gain their rights should the worst happen, revisit them.

§9Granted, Capcom has always had a tendency to overcook their franchises with far too many sequels. But looking back, it's quite amazing the amount of content we've gotten out of Mega Man. The classic flavor in particular has maintained a good standard of quality. Even its worst games aren't genuinely bad.

§b(Discounting Mega Man 1 and 3 for DOS, of course. And that Game Gear one.)

§9For a franchise that's heavily criticized for never innovating, it's actually pretty amazing the amount of originality each new Mega Man game requires. Each new game demands a new set of 8 robot masters, and with them must come new weapons, new levels for using said weapons, new music, new tile sets and enemy graphics, and new cutscenes and stories that make sense with the new robot masters, even though story has never been one of the games' strong points.

§bSo even though preserving the sacred formula meant that the games eventually stopped being big enough to be worth burning to cartridges or discs, the fundamental nature of that design helped preserve the franchise against stagnation.

Besides, perhaps originality itself can be overrated in specific circumstances. Can you blame people for wanting to keep revisiting an old friend? Would you like it if all your friends kept disappearing so you had to constantly go out to make new ones?







You know... I've never considered myself to be that big of a Mega Man fan. But by now it's clear I've tumbled deeper and deeper into the fandom down a long, shallow slope.

I've always been amazed at how Mega Man seems to be both popular and obscure at once. I drifted toward the franchise because it seemed to need a lot of love in spite of its endless sequels.

And eventually, over time, I realized something.

I realized that, in the modern day video game industry, Mega Man 12 is one of the few things left that's safe to get excited for. It'll either be great or it won't come out at all.

That's when I made a deliberate decision to dive deeper into the fandom.

That's when I knew I had to go back and revive Megacraft Classic.